Add code modernization skill (#12940)
dotnet/dotnet-api-docs: .agents/skills/dotnet-snippet-modernization/SKILL.md

---
name: dotnet-snippet-modernization
description: Modernize C# API-reference snippets while preserving the documented API, output, and snippet structure.
---

# .NET API Snippet Modernization

Modernize C# files in the requested `snippets/csharp` scope. Apply current C#
syntax and repository formatting conventions without changing what an API sample
teaches.

## Establish the scope

1. Resolve the exact namespace, type, or snippet-project path requested.
2. Don't include sibling namespaces unless the user explicitly requests them.
3. Inspect existing changes and preserve work that isn't yours.
4. Inventory the source files and projects before a large batch operation.
5. Read and follow `snippets/.editorconfig`.

## Preferred modernizations

> Apply these changes when they preserve behavior and sample clarity:

Reviewer: I like these. Do you want to add one for using raw string literals (or interpolated raw string literals) for paragraph style output?

> - Use C# built-in aliases, such as `string`, `int`, and `bool`, instead of

Author: ```suggestion
- Use top-level statements where possible.
- Use C# built-in aliases, such as `string`, `int`, and `bool`, instead of
```

  framework type names.
- Use target-typed `new` when the target type is evident.
- Use string interpolation instead of composite formatting.

> - Use object and collection initializers when evaluation order and behavior

Author: ```suggestion
- Use raw string literals (or interpolated raw string literals) for paragraph-style output
- Use object and collection initializers when evaluation order and behavior
```

  remain unchanged.

> - Convert eligible value-producing `switch` statements to switch expressions.

Author: ```suggestion
- Convert eligible value-producing `switch` statements to switch expressions.
- Use auto-implemented properties instead of defining a separate field.
```

- Use expression-bodied members for simple single-expression members.
- Remove unused using directives and sort the remaining directives with
  `System` namespaces first.
- Normalize indentation, spacing, trailing whitespace, and final newlines.

Don't introduce `var`; this repository prefers explicit types.

## Preserve the documented API

The directory and file names often identify the API being demonstrated. Don't
replace an API call when that replacement would remove the subject of the
sample.

Examples:

- Preserve `String.Format` in snippets documenting `String.Format`.
- Preserve composite-format overloads in snippets documenting
  `Console.Write` or `Console.WriteLine`.
- Preserve constructor syntax when the constructor invocation itself is the
  focus and target-typed `new` would make the example unclear.
- Preserve a `switch` statement when the sample demonstrates control flow,
  fall-through behavior, labels, or statement-specific side effects.

When the intent is ambiguous, prefer preserving the existing API call over
applying a stylistic transformation.

## Behavioral safeguards

- Preserve snippet markers, including `// <SnippetName>` and

>   `// </SnippetName>`.

Author: ```suggestion
  `// </SnippetName>`. However, if the snippet markers, and possibly output comments, can be moved closer to each other such that less "fluff", such as scaffolding that doesn't directly pertain to the API being demonstrated, is included in the snippet, please do so.
```

- Preserve comments that describe expected output.
- Don't edit generated files, including designer files, or files under `.vs`,
  `bin`, or `obj`.
- Don't add architecture, dependency injection, logging, testing, or XML
  documentation patterns to standalone snippets unless explicitly requested.
- Don't make unrelated naming or structural changes.
- Code comments must end with a period.

## Tooling

Prefer syntax-aware Roslyn tooling over textual replacement.

For `dotnet format`, restrict fixes to diagnostics relevant to the requested
modernization. Useful diagnostics include:

- `IDE0049` for built-in type aliases.
- `IDE0090` for target-typed `new`.
- `IDE0053` for switch expressions.
- `IDE0021` through `IDE0027`, and `IDE0061`, for expression-bodied members.
- `IDE0017` for object initializers.
- `IDE0028` for collection initializers.
- `IDE0005` for unused using directives.

Use formatting tools for whitespace and indentation. Don't enable broad,
unrelated analyzer fixes. Don't use global regular-expression replacements for
syntax transformations.

Place temporary solutions, scripts, and Roslyn tools outside the repository.

## Validation

> 1. Build every affected snippet project with its existing project file.

Author: ```suggestion
1. Build every affected snippet project with its existing project file. If no project file exists, add one.
```

---
name: dotnet-snippet-modernization
description: Modernize C# API-reference snippets while preserving the documented API, output, and snippet structure.
---

# .NET API Snippet Modernization

Modernize C# files in the requested `snippets/csharp` scope. Apply current C#
syntax and repository formatting conventions without changing what an API sample
teaches.

## Establish the scope

1. Resolve the exact namespace, type, or snippet-project path requested.
2. Don't include sibling namespaces unless the user explicitly requests them.
3. Inspect existing changes and preserve work that isn't yours.
4. Inventory the source files and projects before a large batch operation.
5. Read and follow `snippets/.editorconfig`.

## Preferred modernizations

Apply these changes when they preserve behavior and sample clarity:

- Use top-level statements where possible.
- Use C# built-in aliases, such as `string`, `int`, and `bool`, instead of
  framework type names.
- Use target-typed `new` when the target type is evident.
- Use string interpolation instead of composite formatting.

> - Use raw string literals (or interpolated raw string literals) for paragraph-style output

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Use raw string literals (or interpolated raw string literals) for paragraph-style output.
```
Very minor: added missing period.

- Use expression-bodied members for simple single-expression members.
- Remove unused using directives and sort the remaining directives with
  `System` namespaces first.
- Normalize indentation, spacing, trailing whitespace, and final newlines.

Don't introduce `var`; this repository prefers explicit types.

## Preserve the documented API

The directory and file names often identify the API being demonstrated. Don't
replace an API call when that replacement would remove the subject of the
sample.

Examples:

- Preserve `String.Format` in snippets documenting `String.Format`.
- Preserve composite-format overloads in snippets documenting
  `Console.Write` or `Console.WriteLine`.
- Preserve constructor syntax when the constructor invocation itself is the
  focus and target-typed `new` would make the example unclear.
- Preserve a `switch` statement when the sample demonstrates control flow,
  fall-through behavior, labels, or statement-specific side effects.

When the intent is ambiguous, prefer preserving the existing API call over
applying a stylistic transformation.

## Behavioral safeguards

- Preserve snippet markers, including `// <SnippetName>` and

>   `// </SnippetName>`. However, if the snippet markers, and possibly output comments, can be moved closer to each other such that less "fluff", such as scaffolding that doesn't directly pertain to the API being demonstrated, is included in the snippet, please do so.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  `// </SnippetName>`. However, if the markers (and possibly output comments) can be moved closer together to exclude scaffolding that doesn't directly pertain to the API being demonstrated, do so.
```
Very minor:  Made this a bit more concise and with less nested clauses, removed "please" and "fluff".
